building your first PC from Parts can be
frustrating but with our videos it
should be easy even if you're a total
Noob at least that's the theory to
Benchmark the quality of our teaching
we've assembled a dream team made up of
the only people shorter than me at the
company oh my God alamad and Maria
ladies have either of you built a
computer before no that's a bit of a
problem because you are going to be
racing against me to see who can build a
gaming rig the fastest wait what did
they not tell you no they know nothing
oh that's great hey but we don't know
anything about this don't worry you guys
are going to be on a team against me and
you can watch any YouTube videos you
want as long as they're from LT and you
guys are going to get some lifelines
you'll get some extra help I on the
other hand will be given a more
challenging build but this looks the
same actually oh does it Hardline water
cooling okay like this okay segue to our
sponsor that's bad MSI if you're msing a
new motherboard the mpg z790 carbon
Wi-Fi 2 is a great option with features
like a pre-installed IO shield and Wi-Fi
7 compatibility there's no reason you
shouldn't pick one up at the link below
that's a thumbs down link below each
team will be equipped with our wits
these tools including the gorgeous retro
Edition LTD screwdriver LTD store.com
and two hour 2 hours at the end our
builds will be judged with penalties and
bonuses depending on our speed and the
quality of our work games master David
will explain all of that as we go Maria
Alum feeling
confident yes kind of as long as we can
see a video of someone of you Buc some
I'm just someone now before we start can
we go lower we start short on the short
end of the stick really this seems like
a pretty good height really can we seems
fine uh line is you're almost our height
okay yeah that's better oh my god oh why
is it going down oh it's still going
down oh my God stop what's going on is
this okay hype for you guys no you
good come on I never get to be the one
making the short jokes three 2 one go oh
my God okay where should we watch the
you here yeah yeah yeah uh you can bring
that laptop with you over here if you
want under normal circumstances in one
of these competitions I would fool
around a little bit but I have been
burned time and time again doing that so
instead I'm going to get things going
our builds today are based on our
standard workstations for a few reasons
one we already had multiples of these
components kicking around the office so
that's uh convenient two these parts
were picked for easy assembly in the
first place and three it means that when
we're done we can just deploy these
systems to our team convenient how would
you rate your technical ability out of
eight mhm eight depends on where where
you but I mean yeah it comes to sewing
machines yeah I could be like a you know
8 10 do you think that computers and
sewing machines have a lot in common
no for our CPU we've gone with the core
i5 13600 K it's got 14 cores and it's
just generally good bang for the buck
also unlike its roed out I9 cousins it
is pretty darn power efficient don't oh
Mary don't stop you're going to want to
keep going I feel like we're going to
take forever yeah I mean we chose the
easiest gaming PC build video and L said
here it was so hard to screw it up so
hopefully we're good am I allowed to
help them of course I mean if you want
to lose yeah are you guys into POV
content this one is really easy to
follow along with okay perfect it's a
little bit less modern but this one's
really good and then if there's any
details you want to use how to build a
PC the last guide you'll ever need I
should have just let them struggle but I
I can't I want I want a healthy
competition okay for our SSD we've gone
with the crucial P5 plus we like these
because they're cheap we don't put any
data on our workstations it's actually
against company policy everything is
supposed to be on a redundant and back
up server but they have a 5year warranty
and have proven to be very reliable in
our deployments I need to tell you guys
about the lifelines you get so you get a
medium help which is me coming there and
I'll I'll be able to instruct you but I
can't touch anything for 2 minutes okay
uh and then you're also going to get a
video call with someone much more
knowledgeable than me Jordan you'll get
another 2 minutes with him you have to
match it with the dot at the corner of
the socket but I don't see there's no
dot wait wait wait wait wait
yeah
should
be for our Ram we've gone with some
Trident Z5 DDR 56,000 C 30 not the
tightest but it's definitely sufficient
for office use okay CPU installed I
think I gave lonus every possible out on
Hardline water cooling making it simpler
but he assured me he could do this in
two hours I don't know if there's any
orientation can we ask David maybe David
David you want to use your Lifeline we
have two with you right you have two
minutes
minutes okay David we need your help
five seconds um this there's an
orientation for the r like yeah so if
what I would do is I would line it up
and see where the notch in the ram lines
up with the notch here um L you want to
use slots two and four right furthest
away from the am I being asked for Tech
tips right now that's that's what you do
here's a tech tip open up the box and
find your manual
a for our motherboards we're using the
Asus perart z790 Creator which
is very much unnecessary Overkill we've
talked about this on W show but Asus
insisted on sending some sick gear over
if it meant that they could watch lonus
lose what do you mean watch line is lose
I'm not losing it's got 10 gig ethernet
Wi-Fi 6E dual Thunderbolt four ports PCI
Gen 5 and four m.2 slots lonus do you
think that the LTT video library is
enough of an edge for a new time Builder
oh yeah you can easily build a PC with
the LTT video library that's the purpose
of how to build a PC the last guide
you'll ever need okay myv
video okay there you go okay did they
just get the RAM installed one of them
they're moving a little faster than I'd
like right now
water even yeah this one is high oh no
sometimes it's good to rotate things
around so so you can see from another
angle hey that's for both that's that's
an advice for both teams uh-huh they
didn't even hear you I got to respect it
I got to respect okay now it should be
fine yay okay woo let's go okay thank
you oh I think you just need to rotate
this those are for different ones so I
tested I don't have nails you have more
Nails I okay uh where
I yay okay we're making progress you
know in some ways I'd actually rather do
custom water cooling than an AO cooler
these days cuz of all the hookups and
everything and all the RGB and all that
stuff can be such a nightmare I've
notice that you're not using the manual
we use it for a little bit but then we
prefer to use at least me I prefer to
use the video because I'm more visual
yeah I win good teacher down there oh
that you will need that I took it off
the table cuz lonus isn't using that
he's got something way more complicated
okay so this is the cooling for the CP
know you have to what does it say lonus
has you all custom water cooling so he's
got EK Parts including a velocity 2
water cooling block we're going to be
using the noctua NH u14s on this side
which is our standard one comes with 140
mil fan how does it make you feel when
you watch your boss in a video weird I
think this is the first
LT
like yeah yeah but it's good I mean
watch you explain really good life thank
you before I move on to water cooling my
GPU I want to address a comment that
I've seen a lot of times and it's that
building computers is easy it's just
Legos for adults um number one it's Lego
not Legos the plural is Lego and number
two I just think that's really unfair
there's nothing wrong with the fact that
they're taking their time looking things
up going slow and when you're
experienced you don't think about all
that extra overhead that's involved in
building a PC I am functionally done
I've mounted my cooler even though I
haven't hooked all the water tubes up to
it and as soon as I put this GPU in and
plug this in I have finished building
this PC that doesn't mean that they're
doing anything wrong I can't help but
you that's not quite correct oh no
what's not correct you want all of them
on the other one yeah okay on number two
let's make sure it everything is in
number two yes okay I think we fixed it
um no but that's the wrong one I have no
idea hey we should watch
this oh so we need to rotate it uh if
you guys are looking for nocta cooler
instructions uhhuh I believe you can
look at the short we did recently
mounting one of their coolers from 15
years ago or whatever it was it be the
same it's the exact same mounting
mechanism all these years later it's
been about 43 minutes since we started
and uh both teams are making progress
are we really making progress oh no
way thank you Corsair it's pre-added
dang it Corsair you're making it too
easy you were missing something yes you
you you've already picked the right ones
but they should go on
before
REM what do you
mean oh this this
ones there you go and now should be able
to did you guys get the cooler removed
yet for this have you have you guys done
this part yet no what is that oh gee
uhoh where is that from are you trying
to troll with
us okay so we are good because the
cooler will be facing this way so lus
says like what injecting I don't know
why it's this funny but hearing them
talk about L is says do this and do that
I'm like stand here I do say nothing oh
my God I'm
scared okay good well they don't have
anything in the case
yet we need your help 2 minutes of your
help minutes of my time yes we're
supposed to put something here before
put in this yes okay so where's no no no
sorry that goes directly into it if you
look into that there's like it'll screw
right into it in this position right
yeah that's the only way it'll go right
now yeah and then we need to screw those
I was given multiple options for a pump
reservoir combo this might be a little
easier to mount but I'm not sure if
there's enough room or at least it would
have been if anyone had checked to see
if this case has any 140 mm fan mounts
oh done oh done oh done just do wait
this is cool EK includes a little
sticker that's a hole guide now so you
can just take this peel it slap it onto
wherever you want it and you're good to
go how is he going over there that is a
radiator have to get some how are you
doing over here oh
terrible I've never I've never built a
computer before either so this is huh
I'm doing good you already have like the
motherboard and everything St we oh my
God okay hopefully the water cooling
goes wrong and then we have time for you
know ouch wow Maria somehow manages to
make even Trash Talk sound pretty nice
you know I mean hopefully you hopefully
you screw up everything and die okay
that looks good I think I think we have
to connect this also do I have fans for
my rad I thought the case came with fans
ah but it does
not it does
not we're going on a field
trip let's go oh they restocked the
snacks yes Che got granola bars get some
gamer fuel Y how many fans in
it hey there we go classic LTT Edition
Ms oh yeah they're
not David we did a cooler yay you're
making progress yay Hey where's the
excitement for me making progress
Davido
Yayo wow you know I just thought you
guys were nice
ah well that makes it a little
easier o that's a demerit
hey my camera op Knocked Up Glenn hit
that I didn't hit that yeah Glenn loses
points yeah Glenn you lose
points
no it doesn't go in I will need a
different radiator I'm giving the games
master a de Merit for sabotaging my
build it fit in the case that I
originally tested with but we changed
cases because Asus was so generous to
send this one
here so we need to align that and that's
going to yeah there you go have one
perfect hey you never have to look far
at lonus Media
Group to find water cooling crap oh
that's an interesting little
mm here do
something okay yes then we need
Jordan hi Jordan how are you good how's
it going there we're struggling that
looks pretty good what else do you have
to put in here uh we have the GPU on the
power supply here you should be good to
put in the motherboard and then uh I
would do probably the power supply next
and get everything wired up and then do
the GPU last okay bye Jordan steal all
of light tools so we can't finish oh
yeah that's a good idea okay
yeah de Merit David I'm going to end
this video with the the longest time
somehow me I found screws okay this GPU
doesn't fit in this case are you kidding
me oh it doesn't look like
it I don't need to close my side panel
there no I I won't judge you on that
okay demerits for the game master uh uh
no one needs to close their side panels
no one needs to close their side
panels okay grab the CES of the power
supply we can
cheat I mean I guess I could just bend I
was planning to just use 90 fittings
for all of my bends it's a bit of a hack
but I think it still counts as hard line
especially when you're time constrained
but I could just bend
them
yes CPU this
one got all my fans lined up and I
realized this was just a be radiator
there's no mounting hard is this not
there
no oh my God it helps it all I'm having
a great time
too why do you choose to put the fans on
top of the radiator fans go on top of
the radiator for easier maintenance down
the line also these are orange and I
didn't want to see them in there this is
the side of the power
supply I'm use the CPU fan header for
the pump it's far more important that
your pump is running than that your fans
are spinning in that that'll kill your
system a lot faster experienced that
firstand a little while ago uh they have
the names here of the things we have to
connect so CPU should be somewhere
around and then the other one is the
PC I don't see them we're missing things
yes you have 45 seconds my help okay
where should we connect the PCI and the
CPU connectors PCI is for the graphics
card but this graphics card won't use
this it'll have a specific 16 pin one I
will attempt one freehand Bend if this
doesn't go flawlessly then I will not
attempt another and I'm just going to go
for fittings man this thing is not very
hot push it
okay a David this is not fitting
here can I I'll try and if I can't do it
then you're you're not wrong okay
okay here we
go yeah kind of ugly but it'll do right
now the problem is this is too thick to
fit under here and so in order to get
this
inside normally you could kind of like
Jiggle It in kind of make it work but I
actually don't think we have
enough clearance to make that
work L we might need your help I might
not be good enough for this what do you
need can you make this fit watch the
master in action I thought so oh wow I
thought
so thank you w wo whoa whoa whoa whoa
what do you mean thank you I thought so
you have to do it
no well what I'm going to just hand them
the W they're almost done true this is
the last thing once you figure it
out yay nice high five nice nice nice
nice nice how's the water cooling going
lannis extra demoralizing doing Hardline
tubing in a case where the thing isn't
even going to fit together when you're
done it's just extra air flow because I
need so much air flow in my water cooled
computer are you going to keep are you
going to keep bending or are you going
to fit it uh you know what the bending
was pretty fast and I think it's going
to be faster for this one too how do you
find the screwdriver while you're
building the computer for the tiny
screws here inside like this tubby yes
perfect it's good if I'm going to lose I
might as well at least sell a few
screwdrivers thanks ladies it is that
one but flip it yeah yep I didn't help
man love Hardline to me I love my build
taking triple the amount of time for all
that performance benefit you ready for a
high-risk maneuver we're going to fail
let's fail in an exciting and
spectacular
manner
who needs a guide when you have a
KN holy I think we got the
angle how are you finding those little
connectors I can't find a lot of things
like because they have names on the
connectors and we try to match those
spel right now mhm the only thing that
says panel here is this side but I don't
think that matches there so like the
real question is if we need to use all
all of them are or not
um probably do but why is not working
five more minutes no no no no no I'm
going to use a little tiny piece of
tubing as a bridge okay I think that was
the right one
yeah
okay I don't know fingers
crossed who knows if it works or not we
have good chances of winning this what
do you think I don't think so
PL
there okay there's a red light I don't
know if that's working you're missing
one very important
cable which important cable the one that
uh connects the front power button here
we go freehand
90 oh that's my ugliest one yet it's on
right I mean it's not the fun is not on
I think we're past the two hours but
neither team is finished do we go till
someone finished dishes yeah all right
I'm going to be first let's go I'm just
going to help you at this point thank
you let's plug in a monitor see if we're
getting display out I'll need a monitor
too what do you think Glenn how's it
look Dandy
huh tastes like
candy
okay just got
to please work
please all right okay now we're cooking
let's give the CPU a receipt here shall
we there's bent pins in my socket at
least three what but it worked I didn't
bend them on the way out and I can do a
board swap in like 4 minutes if I have
it I'll be back all right let's go
technically they're not done
yet okay I can still win this I think
the best learnable today is that PC
Building it's a team exercise everybody
works together the curve ball it's
working the GPU is working is
working oh my God hey I posted too I
don't see in Windows they got to figure
that out still we do we have a video for
that I don't know guess figur it
out still got to get my GPU back in got
to get my Loop filled they've just got
to get out of the BIOS that's lucky it's
actually the same bios we still got this
we still got
this okay okay so what did you what did
you two do there walk walk the camera
through what you did oh my God
F1 hey woo okay everyone's Fortune's
turning around this thing's coming
together those I need to hit numl let's
go when you can't keep giving them hints
come on
David okay y good job we made it oh my
God yes I am putting in cable ties right
now if you're not going to finish on
time you got to go for those bonus
points okay 1 minute
left actually this
time okay good okay presentation right
plating wait shoot did I reboot
this come
on
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2
1 what was our total time just over 3
hours and 20 minutes but I'm very
impressed and proud of both teams a
thank you thank you do note uh Mr judge
that my uh CPU and GPU temperatures are
in the top right of the screen wow okay
that's we don't know we don't know
people can't do
that I have to say the fact that you
were able to Hardline this computer this
is a good-look system yeah it is
goodlook so the front looks real good
and that's the most important part but
let's go take a look at the back oh you
don't even have the side panel
on it's so much
cleaner yeah I would that was okay uh
I'm a little bit disappointed by the
lack of LTT cable
ties yeah there is there's some on the
front yeah there's two okay that's
pretty nice we don't have that we need
to win don't say that yeah I mean it's
not perfect but for a rush job this is
this is a darn nice system L
unfortunately due to technical
difficulties I had to step in and help
the first impression is it's not quite
as
clean uh Cable Management leaves a
little bit to be desired uh though you
had cable ties I brought those
specifically they don't need cable
management they need cable one
management one
management wow I've really had to
struggle for that it's not as bad as
lonus is because there's just not as
many cables but yeah why is this going
over that's what you did
WOW before we go any further I realized
we never even talked about this GPU
I talked about every other component and
then Asus sent over these gpus because
we needed matching gpus for this uh
they're 480s they're super quiet they
have gigantic coolers on them uh they're
really
fast I actually have something that
David missed this computer unfortunately
is a fire hazard ladies your high
voltage pcie power connector is not in
all the
way however any points I might have
taken off for that if I was judging
which I'm not I would have given back
for using my trademarked little uh Ty
pretzel in the CPU fan cable trick I
like it I like it good job this is
really hard I I think you got to give it
to
[Laughter]
us I feel really bad doing this but I
think I am going to award the victory to
lonus your what all by myself this
beautiful t-shirt wow did you make this
shirt all by
you know what I would have given it to
them really to be perfectly honest with
you yeah we don't know if I broke the
motherboard that's true there's also a
lot of water in my computer you didn't
look that
closely okay put it
on we should put it on together what do
you think how do you put it you guys are
doing great yeah this is so
wrong yeah yeah now smile oh wait wait
wait
oh God oh my goodness so all right well
this devolved um extremely quickly you
guys did great
GG there you go and GG to our
sponsor Squarespace are you looking to
create a website but lack the technical
expertise Squarespace is here to help
their all-in-one platform simplifies the
process of getting your website up and
running quickly with Squarespace you can
grow your business online through their
marketing features which include SEO
support email campaigns and social tools
they offer a wide selection of
award-winning mobile optimized templates
and their Commerce platform provides
everything you need for merchandising to
check out you can also access analytic
insights to optimize your website's
performance and identify areas that need
Improvement if you require assistance
Squarespace has help guides and a 247
support team so visit squarespace.com
LT to receive 10% off your first
purchase if you guys enjoyed this video
you know what why not check out Sarah's
first build was that a short circuit LT
I can't remember really good video
though